First principles, those what matters, but what do I mean by that? There are tens of thousands of problems and it is impossible for someone to solve all of them and even that does not matter, it was never about the quantity of accepted code at all and the worst piece of advice is to tell someone “solve as much problems as possible”,  although I am sympathetic with such conception, because in its essence this is advice is telling you : “ when you solve many problems, you have a higher probability to stumble across many First Principles” and statistically that is true but what is also true is that you might end up getting so many accepted code and your color might not even be Pupil!, i.e., following this advice blindly increases also the probability of solving many useless problems that will teach you nothing. You might solve a bunch of 50 problems but you might had learned nothing, because through all of them, you have been repeating the same principle and the only thing you get out is getting used to one principle. What matter is that you must learn as much First Principles as possible. For example, Count Sort, 2D prefix sum array, 2D prefix counting array might seem different algorithms but they all boil down to one principle : “metadata about other data” , they boil down to the idea of making other data that tells us something about the original data and then we use the metadata to perform clever and efficient solutions rather than jumping to the original data which will force us to make naïve solutions, you should tell yourself that I will study the principle of Metadata and apply it to problems that seems very different from the outside but they are in essence the same rather than tell yourself I will study Count Sort, of course you must know the algorithm of Count Sort but at the end, it is not about Count Sort, it is about the principle of Metadata, the idea that you make metadata about the original data and do the solution above the metadata because doing it in the original data is naïve. The principle of Metadata is also apparent in the technique of Memo, it was never about Memo, it was about the Metadata principle. In this series, I will try my best to cover First Principles. My point here, there are people who get hundreds of codes accepted but they do not even make it to Pupil and we do not want to end like them. 

A good question is this, how to know good problem solvers? We know them with their color. We shall never know them by just how much code they get accepted to judges. Although Codeforces system is very bad at evaluating the difficulties of problems, its idea of colors and rankings is very clever. It is only based on how you good someone perform in contests, because in contests, the contester is under pressure and he is been squeezed and what is inside him starts getting out, if it was good, then shall be, if there was nothing, then also shall be, that is it, in contests there is no time for education, you are just being squeezed and what is inside you is getting out. 


Heading 1 : First Principles 
heading 2 : metadata 

The idea is this: we get some data and we can jump directly into it and start solving but we will end up doing a very naïve solution, rather than that, we will create new metadata that tells us something about the original data and then we forget about the first data and do a smart solution in the metadata. Two examples are Prefix Arrays and Count Sort algorithm. 
